# Reflection

I have learned so much while working on the final project and the course tutorials. Though I have a solid background in HTML, CSS and JavaScript, I hadn't done real coding in at least five years, and I had no prior experience with d3. So it was a joy to be able to code in a new (to me) language, and made me realize how much I enjoyed and missed coding.

What I found most challenging throughout the semester was that because I am brand new to d3, everything I did had to be a one-step-forward-three-steps-back type of process.  This inevitably made every task much more time-consuming. More than a few times during the semester, I realized that something would not work only after having spent hours on trying to implement it. I learned the hard way that building on what I know works for sure is a quicker way to a successful project than trying to execute a very broad and vague idea that is in my head.

Because of this, the final project ended up very different from my initial idea; I had to accept the fact that I was not adept enough in d3 to execute what I had originally intended on creating. However, during the process of trying to implement my original idea, I spent a lot of time reading online resources on map projections, which was an excellent learning opportunity. I gained a solid understanding of different types of projections, their limitations and how we need to select a projection based on the needs and purpose of the visualization.  Though my d3 skills are still rudimentary, and I cannot implement complex map projections that require elaborate transitions, I believe the knowledge on projections I gained through this process prepared me for the GIS course I will take next semester.

I also had to compromise a lot on design decisions. Ideally, I wanted to present the bar chart in a different style so that it was more visually pleasing and would not take up so much space on the page. In the end, I ran out of time and could only incorporate the feedback from Ellie to move the x-axis and axis title to the top.  If I had more time, I would have definitely worked to improve the bar chart.

Another element of the final project I would have liked to spend more time on was the introductory paragraphs about what inspired me to use geospatial projections for the project.  The ideas that a map is a human construct and how cartographic projections can signify more than the geographical location are something I have been thinking about for quite some time. I found it challenging to boil that down to a few paragraphs, and wish I could have done a better job of distilling these ideas to offer a better introduction.  

