<h1>Project abstract</h1>
<p>Maps are commonly used in data visualizations as an effective way to communicate a complex set of information.  In my final project, I plan to illustrate the benefit of using geospatial projections as compared to other forms of visualization in hope to informat fellow students in the Data Analysis and Visualization program about the usefulness of geospatial projections.</p>

<p>One of the inspirations for this project came from <a href="https://whitney.org/exhibitions/jasper-johns">Jasper Johns: Mind/Mirror, the art exhibition currently on view at Whitney Museum of American Art</a>.  During the early years of his career, Johns incorporated things such as maps, flags, and numbers into his paintings to point out that a real world is not the same as a painted map.</p>

<p>Projections are a mathematical transformation that takes spherical coordinates (latitude and longitude) and transforms them to an XY coordinate system<sup><a href="http://web.mit.edu/1.961/fall2001/projections.htm">1</a></sup>.  To achieve this, there will always have to be some compromises that result in a distortion of the projection to some degree.  As such, it is not possible to represent our physical world onto a two dimensional surface truly faithfully.  Yet maps excel in visualizing certain types of data because it not only portrays geographical locations but also signifies the political, economical and cultural relationships that exist among these locations.</p>

<p>I intend to visualize the Human Development Index (HDI) score as a bar chart and as a map to point out that the map is a more effective way than the bar chart in communicating the data.  I also aim to visualize a set of different indicators closely related to the HDI score to demonstrate that the use of geospatial projections is more efficient in visualizing correlations between these data.</p>
